I sat in the back of the cavernous meeting hall for the second day of Strata + Hadoop World keynotes.  And good thing I did, unknowingly minimizing the risk of being meat for author, radio host, and comedienne, Paula Poundstone. Her “presentation”, Nonsense Science, was really nothing more than a comedy club routine, though it was far and away #1 in my talk rankings. Pity the poor dupes she chose to “pound”, including an O'Reilly planner, an IBM blogger, and a Cloudera sales rep.  Poundstone lambastes the ascent of the “flat thing”, Siri, bloggers, the ubiquity of Google, and the Cloud  – in no uncertain terms, defending the use of f-bombs along the way. Spend 23 minutes enjoying her routine. Who better to celebrate the 10th anniversary of Hadoop than early driver, now Cloudera Chief Architect, and Apache Software Foundation board member, Doug Cutting. In the 10 years post-Hadoop, hardware has become commoditized and development methods become more iterative. Software platforms have trended to open source from enterprise proprietary – and the two communities are confluencing around standards. The Hadoop ecosystem has been the beneficiary of these trends, while simultaneously setting the standard for future work. Now Spark is replacing MapReduce as the compute engine for many, though they coexist painlessly – and will continue to mutually thrive with the emergence of new “competitors”. Indeed, expect improvements like this going forward as all industries become data-driven to their core. Open source will  fuel the software stack, even as solid state storage and other improvements advance hardware. And of course the hardware and software stacks will increasingly adapt to Cloud disruption. Presentations highlighted people learning as well as machine learning. Julia Galef of the Center for Applied Rationality, noted that educated and successful people often make predictable errors in judgment, misinterpreting evidence and not learning from mistakes. Her organization purports to redress this shortcoming by turning cognitive science into cognitive practice. One best practice? Develop Bayesian habits of updating probabilities of beliefs in response to strength of evidence.  Look for inconsistencies in evidence and ask what we'd expect to see if our hypothesis of the state of the world is false. I can think of many people who'd benefit from Galef's recommendations. AMPLab Director Michael Franklin discussed the latest directions for BDAS,  the Berkeley Data Analytics Stack, a top to bottom DS platform and  progenitor of Spark. Among current initiatives are Succinct at the storage level for queries on compressed data; Velox for low-latency, personalized model serving; KeystoneML, an interface for users who wish to simply specify the what, not how of ML modeling– much like SQL accomplishes for data access; and AMPCrowd for data cleaning. The latest personal direction for Franklin? Leaving his Cal, Berkeley professorship for a position at the University of Chicago. While Hadoop remains one of the most popular platforms for big data, there's no single correct way to implement it in a manner best suited to your company's business requirements. We delve into where IoT will have the biggest impact and what it means for the future of big data analytics. That's what MarketShare found out the hard way. The company, which is owned by Neustar, offers marketers analytics and reports that help them boost sales and make better decisions. Its clients include MasterCard, Turner Broadcasting and Twitter. MarketShare has been in business since 2005, and by 2012 found itself in a much different place, as Constellation Research VP and principal analyst Doug Henschen writes in a newly published case study. What started as a Small Data analysis challenge in the company's early days evolved into a Big Data challenge by 2012. 
